#summary How to tell if pyNastran will work on your BDF
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

In order to check the software will work read/write a BDF with a given set of cards, it's useful to run the test_helper.py utility.  You can then use a program like "Beyond Compare" to see the differences for yourself.  Most of the changes you'll see are related to positioning of cards, precision of the data fields, and values that were the default value are left blank in order to simplify the file.


*An ENDDATA card is highly recommended* as it's an easy way to tell if all the lines were parsed properly.


= Details =

Navigate to the pyNastran/bdf/test directory and type

{{{

>> python test_helper.py cylinder.bdf > test.out


}}}

The file test.out will be created...

{{{
INFO:    fname=bdf.pyc                lineNo=371    ---starting BDF.read of cylinder.bdf---
INFO:    fname=bdf.pyc                lineNo=589    RejectCardName = |TEMPD|
INFO:    fname=bdf.pyc                lineNo=384    ---finished BDF.read of cylinder.bdf---
INFO:    fname=bdf_writeMesh.pyc      lineNo=68     ***writing cylinder02.bdf_out


INFO:    fname=bdf.pyc                lineNo=371    ---starting BDF.read of cylinder.bdf_out---
INFO:    fname=bdf.pyc                lineNo=589    RejectCardName = |TEMPD|
INFO:    fname=bdf.pyc                lineNo=384    ---finished BDF.read of cylinder.bdf_out---
INFO:    fname=bdf_writeMesh.pyc      lineNo=68     ***writing cylinder02.bdf_out2


diffKeys1=[] diffKeys2=[]
   key=CHEXA   value1=52   value2=52
   key=CPENTA  value1=52   value2=52
   key=ENDDATA value1=1    value2=1
   key=GRID    value1=135  value2=135
  *key=INCLUDE value1=1    value2=0
   key=MAT4    value1=1    value2=1
   key=NLPARM  value1=1    value2=1
   key=PARAM   value1=2    value2=2
   key=PSOLID  value1=1    value2=1
   key=SPC     value1=28   value2=28
   key=TEMP    value1=18   value2=18
  -key=TEMPD   value1=1    value2=1
----------------------------------------------------------------

}}}


It's broken into 3 sections:
 * Section 1 - tells you what file was read and what cards were rejected.
 * Section 2 - uses the output of Section 1 to test again (helps to verifies fields weren't shifted)
 * Section 3 - prints out a cards that were found in the BDF along with the value of each.  
 * A star indicates a cards was not written out and you should be careful of useing the code.  Note that INCLUDE files always have stars by them.
 * A dash indicates the cards was rejected and will be echoed to the output BDF.  Looking in Sections 1 & 2, tells us that the TEMPD card 
was ignored in both cases.