#summary Walkthrough of how to install the project
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =
 * pyNastran is a very easy package to install once you have the required Python modules.  It's a pure Python package so no one should really be having too many problems.
 * The OP4 reader is a bit harder to get working, but is an optional package that requires building of C code in addition to requiring Cython.  Assuming you can build one of the sample Cython examples, it'll work.

= User Overview = 
 * Install Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.1 or 3.2
 * Install numpy, scipy, vtk, & wxPython (Python 2.x)
 * Install numpy, scipy, distribute (Python 3.x)
 * Install Cython for OP4 support
 * Download the latest pyNastran release
 * Extract the zip file
 * Navigate to pyNastran directory on the command line
 * run *python setup.py develop* to install the package
 * run *python setup.py test* to run the tests.  All should pass
 * run *make* in the *pyNastran/op4* directory

= Install Procedure - User =

== Download Python ==
The software has been tested with Python 2.7 and Python 3.2.

I use *Python(x,y)-2.7.2.1*, but it shouldn't matter too much as long as your versions of numpy/scipy are consistent.  Python 2.6 and 2.7 are both fine, but the code uses a few features that aren't available in Python 2.5.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/pythonxy/wiki/Welcome Python(x,y) ]
 * [http://scipy.org/ scipy 0.9.0  ]
 * [http://numpy.org/ numpy 1.6.1  ]
 * [http://www.vtk.org/VTK/resources/software.html vtk 5.8.0] (for the GUI)
 * [http://wxpython.org/download.php#stable wxPython 2.8.12.0] (for the GUI)
 * [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/distribute distribute_setup.py]
 * [http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/ matplotlib 1.1.0] (version 0.5+, for plotting)
 * [http://cython.org/ Cython 0.15.1] (for OP4 support)

== Install Python C compiler & Cython==
 * Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 ([http://wiki.tiker.net/PyCuda/Installation/Windows follow this]).  The version of Visual Studio is important as Python is built against MSVC 2008.  Don't worry, it's free.
 * Linux/Mac: Install gcc
 * Open a command prompt / terminal
 * run *easy_install cython==0.15.1* to install Cython

== Download Distribute_Setup.py (Python 3.x ONLY) ==
 * Download [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/distribute distribute_setup.py] to replace setuptools.  pyNastran needs it to run setup.py.

== Download pyNastran ==
 * Click the downloads page and download the most recent [http://code.google.com/p/pynastran/downloads/list version]

== Install pyNastran ==
 * Navigate to pyNastran directory on the command line
 * run *python setup.py develop* to install pyNastran.  Don't type *python setup.py install*
 * run *python setup.py test* to run the tests.  Make sure all of them pass.

== Install OP4 Reader ==
 * Navigate to pyNastran/op4 directory on the command line

===Windows===
 * run *make* to install the OP4 code
 * if that doesn't work, try *python setup.py build_ext --inplace*

Enjoy!

= Developer Overview = 
 * Install Python
 * Install numpy, scipy, matplotlib, vtk, & wxPython
 * install Doxygen
 * Install Cython (if you want OP4 support)
 * Use subversion to checkout pyNastran
 * run *doxygen Doxyfile* to generate the documentation
 * Navigate to pyNastran directory on the command line
 * run *python setup.py develop* to install the package

= Install Procedure - Developer =

== Install Subversion ==
 * download install [http://tortoisesvn.net/ Subversion]
 * checkout the code (see the subversion website if you need help) and the [http://code.google.com/p/pynastran/source/checkout Source]

== Install Doxygen ==
 * download and install [http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/doxywizard_usage.html Doxygen ]

== Create the Documentation ==
 * Navigate to pyNastran directory on the command line
 * run *doxygen Doxyfile* to generate the documentation

=== Non-Python 2.7 Windows ===
 * open Doxyfile in a text editor and change the python path from *C:\Python27\python.exe* to your executable location (likely *C:\Python26\python.exe* or some variation on that).  *NOTE* that Doxygen cares about the slash direction even if you're using cygwin and it works on the command line.

=== Linux/Mac Step ===
 * open Doxyfile in a text editor and change the python path from    *C:\Python27\python.exe* to your executable location (likely */usr/bin/python* or some variation on that)